


As seen in this activity diagram of our project we have shown the basic implementation of the two function with the name capture_and_store_face_data() and other with the name check face recognition. using these functions we are performing the operation of capturing and recognition of the image
At first in the function capture and store face data we are using the open cv module by using import cv2.We are then using this to capture the current image in front of the camera. After then we are using the data to read the image. after reading the image we are using the dlib to ge the frontal face. dlib has a function known as frontal face detector. In this function we are passing the frames which we recorded with the help of the open cv2.
After that we are using the shape_predictor_68_face_landmarks.dat to determine whether the image detected has a face or not. If there is no face detected in the image then the program returns message that their is no face in front of the camera and if it detects that there is a face in front of the camera then it stores the data of that face in a text file.
Then in the function check face recognition we are using the camera to capture the image using opencv after that we are running an infinite loop to examine the face data. If the examination gives the result that the image in front of camera has the user with the same face data stored using the above function then the
loop continuous. If it is determined that the user in front of the camera is another person then the program
 
uses the subprocess module to give the operating system command to go to sleep. And if there is no user determined in front of the camera then also the program commanda the operating system to fo to sleep.This is done with the help of initialization a recognizer object which uses a black box model dlib_face_recognition_resnet_model_v1.dat to determine the image. And we also calculate the distance for it so that we can say that the user is in the appropriate distance to be recognised by our program in our case we have taken it to be 0.6.
